# Entities

**Entities** constitute one of the three main types of concepts in UMR, 
alongside **states** and **processes.** They typically correspond to physical 
objects, but there are also abstract entities such as _soul._ 

A _mention_ of an entity in text can be **specific** or **generic.** A 
specific mention refers to a concrete, unique instance of the entity. Not 
necessarily by its name (meaning that not every specific entity is a named 
entity), but there is one specific instance that the speaker has in mind. 

In (1a), there are three mentions of the same specific entity, the unique 
institution in Prague, called “National Museum”. It is first referred to by 
its name, then by the personal pronoun _mu_, and finally by the common noun 
_muzeum_. In contrast, the common noun _muzea_ (plural of _muzeum_) in (1b) 
is a generic entity: It refers to various institutions that all belong to the 
category of museums. 

* (1a) [cs] _Národní muzeum v Praze získá nový bezpečnostní systém, který mu dodá firma CESS. Muzeum za něj zaplatí necelé 2 milióny korun._
            “The National Museum in Prague will get a new security system, which will be supplied by CESS. The museum will pay almost 2 million crowns for it.”
* (1b) [cs] _V každé zemi podléhají muzea jiné legislativě._
            “In each country, museums are subject to different legislation.”

If a proper name is used, it typically refers to a specific entity, but as we 
see in (1a), specific entities can be referenced by other means, too. Even if 
the name were not present in the sentence, the context would tell us that we 
are talking about one specific museum, which probably has a name, and perhaps 
the context would be specific enough to allow us to identify the entity and 
its name in the real world. However, that is not a necessary condition for a 
specific entity. In (2a), _staršího muže_ “an elderly man” refers to a person 
whom we do not know and who may not even exist in the real world (the text 
may be a work of fiction). The man may not be mentioned again and we may not 
learn anything else about him, yet in this local context he is a specific 
entity and not a generic one. 

* (2) [cs] _Když opouštěl budovu, zahlédl staršího muže, jenž nesl v náručí žlutou krabici._
           “As he was leaving the building, he saw an elderly man carrying a yellow box in his arms.”

A specific entity is a **named entity** if it is referenced by its **name.** 
Name is a word or a sequence of words whose purpose is to label a specific 
instance, not to describe a category of entities by their properties or 
relations to other entities. Thus _muzeum_ is not a name because it can be 
used to refer to any institution that meets certain parameters. The phrase 
_Národní muzeum_ is a name because it was specifically designed to label one 
particular museum. 

> **proper name** ?= named entity (as "New Zealand" and "the United States of America") <br>
BUT "Zealand" or "America" are not proper names - why not? <br>
(confusing as Zealand is a Danish island and America may refer to the continent)

> **proper noun** ?= common noun  (as "museum")

The name does not have to be unique: An important museum 
in another country may also be called _Národní muzeum_, just like there are 
multiple people called _John Smith_. People may have to add more information 
if misinterpretation is possible, but the intended purpose of a name is to 
give the entity a reasonably locally unique identifier, and the purpose is 
what matters. 

Furthermore, it is not necessary that a specific entity has only one name. 
For example, _Spojené státy americké_, _Spojené státy_, _USA_ and _Amerika_ 
are all names and all refer to the same country. One can even encounter just 
_Státy_ used as a name and referring to the USA. When used in a Czech 
sentence in this manner, it cannot refer to, e.g., the United States of 
Mexico. The same word, _státy_ “states” (not capitalized, unless 
sentence-initial), can be used as a common noun (hence not a name), referring 
to a group of entities (states or countries) that may be specific or generic. 
On the other hand, depending on context, _Amerika_ may refer to a continent 
rather than to a country (North America, South America), or it may refer to a 
quarry southwest of Prague. 

Proper names are thus designed to label specific instances, while common 
nouns are meant to describe broader categories (types). The borderline may be 
occasionally blurry when a common noun is repurposed as a name (as we have 
seen with _Státy_ above) but it is much less likely that a proper name will 
be used for a generic entity. We can certainly define a category of all 
people named _Václav_, as in (3), but that does not convert the name into a 
common noun – all these people first got that name with the hope that it will 
make them identifiable and distinguishable from other people, and only later 
the speaker artificially grouped them, using their name as the property 
defining the group. 

* (3) [cs] _Všichni Václavové by měli znát své slavné jmenovce._
           “All Václavs should know their famous namesakes.”

While the use of _Václavové_ in (3) is unusual, there are proper names that 
denote a type rather than an instance. A primary example is product names, as 
in (4) (the specification of product category is enclosed in parentheses in 
the example because it is optional): 

* (4) [cs] _Používám (prací prostředek) Persil._
           “I use Persil (detergent).”

Clearly, _Persil_ is a proper name rather than a common noun, as it was 
invented specifically to distinguish this detergent from other detergents; it 
is not a common noun that we expect to find in dictionaries. However, the 
name denotes a type of product, not one particular instance. There are 
millions of packages of Persil, and they all share this name. And while the 
name could be used when referring to a specific package, in (4) it actually 
refers to a generic entity. We will use the term **categorial proper names / 
categorial named entities** with names that denote types (categories) rather 
than instances. 


## Representation of entities in UMR

An entity that is referred to by a **common noun** is represented by a 
regular concept (node), typically with the lemma of the noun as the label of 
the concept (but occasionally the label may be a multi-word string). This is 
done no matter if the entity is specific or generic. 

An entity that is referred to by a **name** is represented by an abstract 
concept corresponding to the semantic class of the entity (e.g., “person” or 
“organization”; see below for the taxonomy of semantic classes). The name of 
the entity is in a separate node, which has the abstract concept “name” and 
is attached to the class concept via the relation `:name`. Individual 
orthographic words of the name are listed in the name concept each in its own 
attribute, the attributes are named `:opX` where X is the ordinal number of 
the word within the name. The words are not always exact copies from the 
sentence, as the name is converted to its canonical form. Note however that 
this does not mean that all words in the name are replaced by their lemmas; 
some will be lemmatized, others will stay in a frozen inflected form. 

An entity that is referred to by a **pronoun** is represented by an abstract 
concept corresponding to the semantic class of the entity. Unlike named 
entities, there is no child node with the “name” concept. 

Common noun _muzeum_ “museum”:
```
(m/ muzeum)
```

Named entity _Národní muzeum_ “National Museum”:
```
(o/ organization
    :name (n/ name
        :op1 "Národní"
        :op2 "muzeum"))
```

* (5) [cs] _Získal práci na Ministerstvu školství, mládeže a tělovýchovy._
           “He got a job at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports.”

```
(o/ organization
    :name (n/ name
        :op1 "Ministerstvo"
        :op2 "školství"
        :op3 ","
        :op4 "mládeže"
        :op5 "a"
        :op6 "tělovýchovy"))
```

Note that the canonical form of the multi-word name of the ministry in (5) is 
composed of the canonical form of the head (_Ministerstvu_ was converted to 
nominative singular, but its capitalization was retained) and the inflected 
forms of the dependent words; the comma is also a separate `:opX` attribute. 

With categorial named entities, the `:name` relation can occur even with a 
generic entity: 

```
(p/ product
    :name (n/ name
        :op1 "Persil"))
```


## Anchoring entities in ontologies

UMR defines the (optional) `:wiki` attribute, which can be used to link a 
concept to a corresponding article in Wikipedia. The examples in the UMR 
guidelines currently show names of English Wikipedia articles in these 
attributes; however, a more robust and thus preferred solution is to use 
Wikidata identifiers. They are not bound to a particular language mutation of 
Wikipedia (all Wikipedias that have an article about the concept are linked 
from the Wikidata page) and they should be more stable (e.g. when one of the 
Wikipedias decides that a different title should be used for the article and 
the old title should become a redirect). Obtaining Wikidata identifiers is 
easy: Let's assume we want to anchor the Czech entity _Národní muzeum_ and we 
find its article in the Czech Wikipedia at 
[https://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%C3%A1rodn%C3%AD_muzeum](https://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%C3%A1rodn%C3%AD_muzeum). 
In the menu on the right-hand side we see a link labeled “Položka Wikidat” 
and leading to 
[https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q188112](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q188112). 

Although the attribute is optional in UMR, in our data we should strive to 
provide it for every mention of a specific entity that has a Wikidata entry. 
(In practice, we could use the coreference annotation in UMR to automatically 
propagate the anchor from one mention to all other mentions. Note however 
that it would be a mistake to say that we only fill the attribute manually 
for named entities. It can happen that a specific entity is never mentioned 
by its name in a document, yet the context doubtlessly points to a known 
entity described in Wikipedia.) 

```
(o/ organization
    :wiki "Q188112"
    :name (n/ name
        :op1 "Národní"
        :op2 "muzeum"))
```

If a specific entity has no Wikidata presence, we have to register it in a 
local ontology that becomes part of the annotation, and provide a local 
identifier instead. Note that the entries in the local ontology are not 
always local to just one document. They are still part of the same universe 
that is partially described in Wikipedia. Consider, for example, a news 
article reporting that _A man (80) was killed this morning in a traffic 
accident._ There could be several other documents reporting on the same 
event, and if it can be established that they are indeed talking about the 
same accident, then all the mentions of the nameless man should be anchored 
to the same entry in the ontology. <span style="color:red">TODO: Implement a 
prototype of the local ontology and specify how it should be linked from the 
annotation. We should probably use a different attribute, e.g., 
`:lwiki`.</span> 


## Other attributes of entities

Every entity concept should have the attribute `:ref-number`, with the value 
reflecting the grammatical number. UMR defines a number of possible values 
for the attribute, based on grammars of various languages. For Modern Czech 
data the value will probably (almost?) always be `Singular` or `Plural`. We 
will not use `Dual` just because we know that we are speaking about two 
people. The dual as a grammatical number has mostly vanished from Czech, and 
UMR has other means to annotate quantity (there is not a separate value of 
`:ref-number` for each integer number). A possible exception in Modern Czech 
is paired body parts _(nohy, ruce, oči, uši)_ because that is where 
grammatical dual still survives. 

Abstract entity concepts that correspond to personal pronouns (or their 
reflections in verbal morphology) will additionally have the attribute 
`:ref-person`. This attribute is not used with other entity mentions (for 
which it would be very unusual to interpret them as anything else than 3rd 
person). 

We now repeat example (1a) as (6) here and show the annotations of entities 
from the example, using all the rules specified so far. (We omit the monetary 
entity from the end because such types of entities have not been discussed 
yet.) 

* (6) [cs] _Národní muzeum v Praze získá nový bezpečnostní systém, který mu dodá firma CESS. Muzeum za něj zaplatí necelé 2 milióny korun._
            “The National Museum in Prague will get a new security system, which will be supplied by CESS. The museum will pay almost 2 million crowns for it.”

```
(o/ organization
    :wiki "Q188112"
    :name (n/ name
        :op1 "Národní"
        :op2 "muzeum")
    :ref-number Singular)

(c/ city
    :wiki "Q1085"
    :name (n2/ name
        :op1 "Praha")
    :ref-number Singular)

(s/ systém
    :lwiki "L1"
    :ref-number Singular)

(o2/ organization
    :wiki "Q188112"
    :ref-number Singular
    :ref-person 3)

(o3/ organization
    :lwiki "L2"
    :name (n3/ name
        :op1 "CESS")
    :ref-number Singular)

(m/ muzeum
    :wiki "Q188112"
    :ref-number Singular)

(t/ thing
    :lwiki "L1"
    :ref-number Singular
    :ref-person 3)
```


## Taxonomy of entity types

The [UMR 
guidelines](https://github.com/umr4nlp/umr-guidelines/blob/master/guidelines.md) 
give a taxonomy of entity classes, types and subtypes in [Section 
3-1-2](https://github.com/umr4nlp/umr-guidelines/blob/master/guidelines.md#part-3-1-2-named-entities). 
They can be used as abstract concepts for named entities and for entities 
represented by pronouns. As of now (June 2023), the taxonomy is reportedly 
under revision by the UMR team. At any rate, the current table has a number 
of issues. Below we examine some of the entity types and discuss their 
utility.

Some other resources:

* [Live Google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OlUgqCTAL8j5B5KtorTLvzHYzc8yw1fN7q63T15loHk/edit#gid=0)
  where the UMR team (Julia & Co.) update their view of the UMR taxonomy. This
  is probably more up-to-date than the guidelines on Github. Some types have
  links to wikidata, which should provide their definition.
* [Comparison of AMR and Prague taxonomy of named entities](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/0B1qTziKgNeglNndFY25yQ0pkWFE/edit?resourcekey=0-Mutw6Gqz3VThnKQ86GiSGg#gid=273215418)
  from the [JHU-PIRE workshop 2014](https://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/JHU-PIRE-workshop-2014).

### person

A top-level class without subordinate types and subtypes. Besides humans, the 
class could serve as a natural fallback for human-like beings that do not 
have a class of their own: deities, dwarves, hobbits, elves etc. What about 
robots? 

### animal

A top-level class. As a named entity, it can be used to represent a pet that 
was given a name by its owner, or an animal character in a fairy tale, 
including fantastic beasts like dragons. The class is not suitable to 
represent _species_ of animals. (They have their own type in the taxonomy but 
it is problematic, see below.) 

### plant

Analogous to animals but covering plants.

### thing

Not listed in the current UMR table but used in their examples (e.g. sentence 
(3) in Part 1) and clearly needed at least for pronouns that refer neither to 
persons nor to animals or plants or other types specifically listed in the 
taxonomy. 

### geographic-entity

A subset of what other named entity taxonomies often label as “location”. 
This subset contains only phenomena created by nature, not by mankind. The 
UMR guidelines currently provide 15 types belonging to this class, probably 
not exhaustive and to be extended in the future. The annotators should use 
the types as abstract concepts if they know them, otherwise they can fall 
back to the whole class. 

The types are: `ocean`, `sea`, `lake`, `river`, `gulf`, `bay`, `strait`, 
`island`, `peninsula`, `mountain`, `volcano`, `valley`, `canyon`, `desert`, 
`forest`. 

### celestial-body

Like `geographic-entity` but on a cosmic scale. Currently four types: `moon`, 
`planet`, `star`, `constellation`. Again not exhaustive: What do we do with 
objects that are smaller than planets but are not moons? 

Note that for _Měsíc_ “Moon”, _Země_ “Earth” and _Slunce_ “Sun”, there is a 
blurred context-based borderline between a name of a celestial body and a 
common noun. But at least the Czech grammar puts the burden of decision on 
the shoulders of the author: if it is a name of a celestial body, it has to 
be written capitalized. So, unless it is the first word of a sentence, the 
annotator can take capitalization as the cue. 

### geo-political-entity

A subset of what other named entity taxonomies often label as “location”. 
This subset contains only phenomena created by mankind, not by nature. The 
UMR guidelines currently provide 7 types belonging to this class, probably 
not exhaustive and to be extended in the future. The annotators should use 
the types as abstract concepts if they know them, otherwise they can fall 
back to the whole class. 

The types are: `country`, `state`, `province`, `territory`, `county`, `city`, 
`city-district`. 

The current selection is too much focused on North America. For example, the 
Czech sub-country administrative unit, _kraj_ “region”, is neither a state, 
nor a province, territory or county. Czech _okres_ could probably be 
annotated as `county`. See also the `region` class below. 

### region

A class with three types: `world-region`, `country-region`, `local-region`. 
There is no definition and it is difficult to guess what the authors had in 
mind. But it is not in the `geo-political-entity` class, so it is probably 
not meant as an official administrative unit and it does not solve the 
problem with Czech _kraj_. Maybe it is meant for less official or formal 
regions such as _Valašsko_, _Morava_ or _Evropa_. Still, we need criteria to 
decide between the three types of regions. 

### facility

A class of man-made entities that have a fixed location but the name does not 
pertain just to the location but also to the building (or whatever other 
facility it is). In some cases, a facility is also an organization (example: 
_museum_), which is a different entity class, but they may share a name. Then 
the annotator will have to decide by context whether the utterance is more 
about the legal entity (organization), or the place or building (facility). 

The guidelines currently list 19 types of facilities: `airport`, `station`, 
`port`, `tunnel`, `bridge`, `road`, `railway-line`, `canal`, `building`, 
`theater`, `museum`, `palace`, `hotel`, `worship-place`, `market`, 
`sports-facility`, `park`, `zoo`, `amusement-park`. 

### social-group

A large class with 6 types: `family`, `clan`, `ethnic-group`, 
`regional-group`, `religious-group`, `organization`. The common 
characteristic of all six is that they denote groups of people. In the case 
of `organization`, it also has a common property, set of activities, and 
usually also some kind of legal existence; this may be also true to some 
extent about families and even clans, but typically not about the other types 
of groups. More importantly, an organization typically has a name that refers 
to the organization as a single entity _(IBM)_, while an ethnic group is 
often denoted by a plural form of a name that labels one member of the group 
_(Baskové,_ the plural of _Bask_ “(a) Basque (person)”). It is thus unclear 
whether and why these diverse types should be analyzed the same way. An 
ethnic group is more like a categorial named entity (see also `product`), it 
denotes people who share a language and/or some cultural and historical 
heritage. Similarly, religious groups is just a common label for people who 
share beliefs. Do we also want a “named entity” for races, or for 
tall/short/slim/fat people etc., or for people who share political views, or 
love for rock-and-roll, or anything else? 

#### organization

A large type of the `social-group` class, see above for my doubts about its 
(dis)similarity to other types. There is much less doubt (than for the other 
types) that organizations are named entities, but the definition of the 
subtypes has to be clarified. The type has currently 11 subtypes: 
`international-organization`, `business`, `company`, 
`government-organization`, `political-organization`, `criminal-organization`, 
`armed-organization`, `academic-organization`, `association`, 
`sports-organization`, `religious-organization`. 

### nationality

A separate top-level class. I do not understand why the authors did not make 
it a type of `social-group`, just like `ethnic-group` and `regional-group`, 
to which it is very close. For example, _Čech_ “Czech” can be, depending on 
context, any of the three: A member of the ethnic group (sharing the Czech 
language and traditions, including people who do not have Czech citizenship, 
as their ancestors left the country and settled abroad); a member of the 
nationality (having the citizenship of the Czech Republic, even if living 
abroad and/or having a mother tongue other than Czech); a member of a 
regional group, living or born in _Čechy_ “Bohemia” (as opposed to Moravia 
and Silesia, which are the other two parts of the country called _Česko_ 
“Czechia”). 

### product

This class is not listed in the current UMR guidelines, which seems to be a 
gap that has to be patched. The current taxonomy actually lists some types 
that could be classified as special cases of `product`, such as 
`aircraft-type` or `car-make`. But there are proper names for other products, 
like _Persil_ in example (4) above. Products are typical examples of what we 
call categorial named entity. 

### vehicle

This is a separate class with currently 5 types: `ship`, `aircraft`, 
`aircraft-type`, `spaceship`, `car-make`. Note that `aircraft-type` and 
`car-make` are categorial named entities that would be better described as 
special types of `product`. For `ship` and `spaceship` it is more typical 
that a name denotes a single instance (e.g., _Titanic_). Perhaps `aircraft` 
is also meant to denote an instance rather than a type. People may 
occasionally give a nickname to their car, then the name will also denote an 
instance and the entity type `car-make` will not be suitable for it. 

### computer-program

This is a separate class with no types. It could be regarded as a type of 
`product`. 

### food-dish

This is a separate class with no types. It seems to be a categorial named 
entity like `product` but it has an unsharp boundary between names and 
descriptions of dishes, so it is quite questionable whether, how, and where 
exactly the class concept should be used. 

### cultural-artifact

This is a separate class with currently 8 types: `work-of-art`, `picture`, 
`music`, `dance`, `show`, `broadcast-program`, `literature`, `publication`; 
the last one has subtypes `book`, `newspaper`, `magazine`, `journal`. Since 
there is no description, it is not clear what is the difference between 
`literature` and `publication` supposed to be. Also, there does not seem to 
be a category suitable for movies. 

Some works of art could be seen as a categorial named entity similar to 
`product`: Typically there are many copies of a book, a movie, or a CD. But 
even here the prototypical reading is that the name refers to the single 
intangible work, not to one of its copies. 

### law

This is a top-level class with two types: `court-decision`, `treaty`. 
Supposedly the class itself should be used for actual laws. There is a need 
for other types, such as a named dean's regulation at a university. 

One could say that laws are close to publications; but they can hardly be categorized as a cultural artifact.

### language

This is a top-level class without types. Supposedly there is no distinction 
between languages and dialects, i.e., names of dialects would also be labeled 
as `language`. Not sure about language groups and families. Note that names 
of languages are often (but not always) related to names of ethnic groups, 
nationalities, regions and countries. 

It is not clear how this label is intended to be used. Should it apply only 
to the name of the language (noun), e.g., _angličtina_ “(the) English 
(language)”, or also to adverbs (_Mluví anglicky._ “He speaks English.”) and 
adjectives (_Procvičuje si anglická slovesa._ “She is practicing English 
verbs.”) 

Do we also use this label for constructed languages _(esperanto)_? I think we 
do. Do we also use it for programming languages _(Pascal, C, Perl, Python)_? 
I am not sure. Maybe those fall under the class `computer-program`. 

### notational-system

This is a top-level class with currently three types: `writing-script` (e.g. 
_dévanágarí_), `music-key`, `musical-note`. It denotes an abstract entity. 

### cultural-activity

This is a top-level class without definition and without types. It would be 
useful to have an example. See also `event` below. 

### event

This is a top-level class with currently 8 types: `incident`, `war`, 
`natural-disaster`, `earthquake`, `conference`, `game`, `festival`, 
`ceremony`. Besides the usual problem that types are not defined, it is not 
clear why `earthquake` shall be distinguished from other natural disasters. 
It is also unclear why `cultural-activity` is a class separate from `event`. 

Furthermore, note that this concept denotes events as entities, although 
events are typically processes (refer to the main distinction between 
entities, states and processes, shown in Table 1 in Section 3-1-1 of the UMR 
guidelines). Section 3-1-1 even uses the term “event” to refer to all 
processes in any packaging, plus entities and states when used in 
predication. Nevertheless, if an event has a name (such as _Druhá světová 
válka_ “World War II”), it is covered by this taxonomy. It would be helpful 
to have an annotated example here. 

### award

Top-level class with no types. Supposedly, _Nobelova cena za fyziku_ “Nobel 
Prize for Physics” would be an example. 

### biomedical-entity

This is a top-level class with currently 18 types: 
`molecular-physical-entity`, `small-molecule`, `protein`, `protein-family`, 
`protein-segment`, `amino-acid`, `macro-molecular-complex`, `enzyme`, 
`nucleic-acid`, `pathway`, `gene`, `dna-sequence`, `cell`, `cell-line`, 
`species`, `taxon`, `disease`, `medical-condition`. They are obviously 
inspired by the bulk of work on biomedical processing and we would need more 
documentation to understand how the authors intended to use them. 

However, at least three types reach into layman's language: `species`, 
`taxon`, and `disease`. The closely related `species` and `taxon` would be 
categorial named entities (like `product`), where the name denotes a whole 
category (type) of entities rather than a single instance. That is, if they 
deserve to be treated as named entities in the first place. For example, 
_kočka_ “cat” is an animal with a particular set of characteristics, just 
like _dub_ “oak” is a particular type (hyponym) of tree, and _hrad_ “castle” 
is a particular type of building. But the first two words are biological 
genuses, hence `taxon`s, while _hrad_ has no special status in the UMR 
taxonomy. (In the Czech grammar, all three are common nouns.) There is no 
reason why _kočka_ and _dub_ should be named entities. And by extension, 
there is little reason why `species` should be named entities, for example 
_kočka domácí_ “cat (Felis catus)”, or _dub letní_ “pedunculate oak (Quercus 
robur)”, or why other taxons should, for example _šelmy_ “beasts of prey, 
Carnivora”, _savci_ “mammals”, or _živočichové_ “animals, Animalia”. It is 
true that some species have names that are less common than others and were 
invented by scholars who discovered and described the species, rather than 
being part of the language since ancient times. But it would be neither 
tractable nor helpful to attempt to distinguish them. Perhaps the only 
exception is the scientific names in Latin, provided that the language of the 
annotated text is not Latin. 

 
Similarly, diseases may have scientific names but many common diseases are 
just common nouns or expressions (_angína_ “tonsillitis”, _chřipka_ “flu”, 
_mor_ “plague”, _neštovice_ “chickenpox”) and it is not clear why they should 
be handled differently from other common nouns. Moreover, diseases are states 
rather than entities. 

### variable

What is this supposed to mean?

### ML notes: 
Several questions about the named examples

" the United States of America" is a "proper name", "America" is not - how to decide?
Americas / America is a name of a continent, so I would say it is a "proper name" too?
[Wikipedia on Americas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Americas) ?

Proper noun by tedy mělo být to, čemu Dan říká "common noun" (part of speech)?
[Dan's proposal](https://github.com/ufal/UMR/blob/main/doc/entities.md)
